Now one of the best tools for browser automation is selenium and selenium works not just with Python
but with lots of programming languages.
But what it gives us is the ability to browse or use a browser without a human involved just through
code.
We can act and move around the mouse click on buttons and interact with the Web site and in this section
we're gonna be using selenium now in order to install selenium.
As you can see we'll have to use pip install now at the bottom here you see that.
It says you may consider using virtual app to create isolated Python environments.
Now we already know about this right.
You could install pip install like this and have it available across your entire machine or you can
use something like pip and to install it just for your specific project or you can use pi charm and
use their automatic virtual environments.
Now we've covered those topics in the other videos so I won't hear in my case I'm just going to install
it globally like this.
So I'm going to get started first.
We're going to install selenium someone say pip in my case Pip 3 install selenium.
Now once you have selenium installed you can create a file in my case I have an automation duck py file
here.
Let's make this a little bit bigger and this little bit bigger.
Let me clear this now.
The next step is to well import in our file so I can say import or actually from selenium package that
we just installed.
We can say import web driver.
Now web driver is going to allow us to drive the Web through code however in order for us to be able
to use selenium properly.
If you go to the installation page here you see that there's something called drivers you see selenium
works with these drivers because each browser like Chrome edge Firefox and Safari has different drivers
to interface with the different browsers.
So based on what browser you want to use to automate things you have to install each of these drivers
in our case let's use the chrome driver.
So we would just click over here and you can see over here that we have the different chrome drivers
that we can use.
You have the current releases.
So the latest versions now usually the latest releases are now what we call stable that is maybe they're
just brand new.
So they haven't been tested enough.
So what I'd like to do is to actually go to the Chrome driver tab here and make sure that we select
the latest stable release.
So based on when you watched this video this version number might be a little bit higher but as long
as it's a stable release instead of the latest beta release which is chrome driver 76 then that's fine.
So let's click over here and you'll see that as soon as I click here you'll give me zip files that I
can install based on my machine.
Now in my case I'm using a Mac so I'll just install the Mac driver and once they open up the zip file
you'll see that I get this chrome driver executable.
Now an executable is kind of like a dot e XY on a Windows machine.
If I double click this it's going to run some code had some binary code that we can run on the machine.
But this is our chrome driver.
This is going to allow selenium to be able to open up our Chrome browser and manipulate that browser
now.
In my case I'm going to move this to my desktop because that's where my automation python file is.
There we go.
Now if I close this.
And by the way if you go to Pipeline and click on selenium the package it will actually explain some
of these installation steps as well.
So you can actually run through this quick setup as well.
Now in our case now that we have the chrome driver what we need to do is to now create an instance of
the browser so let's just call this chrome browser and this is going to equal the web driver that we
just imported.
And then in here use Chrome as the browser.
And then inside as the parameter.
Remember this is the chrome class the web driver gives us.
We have to give it the driver in order to drive the browser now because our chrome driver is in the
same directory as in my file.
I can just do a dot slash or use a string and say chrome driver which is the name of the driver.
Now let's make this a little bit smaller so we can see everything now in here.
If we had multiple projects we'd ideally use chrome driver not just copy and paste chrome driver everywhere
into our project folders but instead you'd put it into your path.
What does that mean.
Well just like when we installed selenium when we did Pip 3 install selenium.
Usually when you install something globally or when you have it available globally if you're on a Mac
or Linux computer you usually will put it under user local then folder and you'd put it inside of this
folder.
If you're on a Windows you'd usually put it in its path in the windows folder of the C drive.
And if you do that you can actually just keep this as blank and the driver will actually look for the
Chrome driver in this path.
But in our case we'll just leave it like this so make sure that the chrome driver is in the same folder
as the file now in here.
Let's print out what we have as a Chrome browser so I'm going to just run this file
and I get an error during handling of the bag above exception where it looks like I get a file not found
error.
And that's because I made a little typo here it should be chrome driver.
So let's say that again.
Give that another go.
And did you see that Chrome just opened up for me.
So right now automatically by running Chrome browser I got an instance of the Chrome browser so let's
see what we can do here.
Let's say we change our browser to just be like this if I go here and do Chrome browser.
Dot maximize the window and run this method.
Let's run our file now when we run this.
Nothing happened.
And the reason is you see over here that we get an error and you might get this as well.
It says not created exception message session not created this version of Chrome driver only supports
chrome version seventy five.
So you have to make sure that the driver that you install in our case it was the stable one is compatible
with the version of Chrome that you have.
Most likely you'll have to update your chrome version so you see over here that I have a version 74
but in here says hey this is compatible only with Chrome version 75.
So how can we fix this.
We're simply going to relaunch
I have updated my chrome version again if you're not sure how to do that you simply go to Chrome and
go to about Google Chrome or preferences and you'll be able to update to the latest version or make
sure that you're using the version that matches your driver now that we have version 75.
Let's try this again.
I'm going to run my file
and look at that I get Chrome is being controlled by an automated test software.
So I've just created a new window a new instance which is what we've done here with the Chrome browser
and I've just said Maximize Window.
Now if I remove Maximize Window here and I simply run this again you see that right now I have a narrow
window this time with the window.
Well now maximized just the default sizing.
So every time I run this I create a new instance of the browser.
Very very cool.
Now let's close these for now and in the next video we're going to explore how we can use this to actually
move through web pages.
Now if you haven't gotten this far Take your time to make sure that the versions match that you're able
to run a browser from your command line and in the next video we're going to do some really cool things.
I'll see on that one by.